- Start Date: 2018-04-27
- RFC PR:

# Summary
The goal of this RFC is to reduce application build time of ember
applications by prebuilding addons.

# Motivation
For improving developer productivity, reducing build time is
crucial. During cold and warm build (not rebuild) of an ember
application, both internal (in-repo, possibly being developed) and
external (in `node_modules`, generally not being developed) addons are
built on each build. In our large-application example, Babel takes up
the majority of the application build time, and transpiling addons
takes a significant portion of that (several minutes). Prebuilding
addons will help reduce the application build time.

# Detailed design
Building an addon involves fetching the different broccoli trees
(`templates`, `app`, `vendor`, `addon`, `styles`, `public`, `test-support`,
`addon-test-support`, `src`) and transpiling them.

Note that:
- External addons are never going to change unless we pull in a new version
  of the addon or we directly modify the addon in `node_modules`.
- Internal addons may change if we are working on them or their
  dependent addons. Addons must have the `isDevelopingAddon`
  flag set if they are being actively worked on.

The idea of this PR is that during the initial cold build `ember
build/serve` of an application or an addon, some addon
trees' transpiled output will be stored in a separate location so that
it can be reused for subsequent builds.

# Key Considerations and Details
- Prebuild is an opt-in feature
- When you may not want to prebuild
- When prebuild is not possible
- Good default target browsers
- A cache key is generated for a prebuilt tree and prebuild uses it to check
  if a given prebuilt tree is (still) valid
- Addons and apps can share prebuild responsibility
- Prebuild meta data information for each addon is persisted
- A prebuild summary log file is generated
- Clearing the prebuild cache

Each of the above points is discussed below in detail.

## Opt-in Feature
This is an opt-in feature. The environment variable PREBUILD must be set to store or
use the prebuilt trees.

## When You May Not Want To Prebuild
You may not always want to prebuild every addon you can. These
exclusions can be defined either in the `package.json` of the
application or as an environment variable.
The addons to be excluded can be defined as an array or a string or a pattern of addon names.
- In `package.json`, the value is represented as shown below:
```json
"prebuild" : {
  "excludeAddons" : "*",
}
```
- The environment variable `EXCLUDEADDONS` can be used instead to contain the same value

Having this ability provides flexibility in the following scenarios:

- *When changing the addon directly in `node_modules`* - If you're modifying the addon code
directly inside `node_modules`, for example while troubleshooting issues, and the addon was previously prebuilt,
the prebuild will be used in preference to your changes during both build and rebuild. This
causes a couple of problems:
    - *During rebuild* - Rebuild will not be triggered because the file-system watcher will
      be watching the prebuild directories, not the changed code in `node_modules`.
    - *During build* - Changes in `node_modules` will not be reflected if the prebuilt addon
      is already available. The computed cache key for the addon does not include timestamp
      data (it does not check that the code on which the key is based has changed), so the
      build will continue to return the prebuilt addon tree.
  
    Both of these scenarios can be dealt with but the build-time gain from doing prebuild
    will be lost handling them.
- *Features are removed from browsers* - 
  Features removed from browsers are a rare scenario. But in the future we can
  consider `excluding` or `blacklisting` browsers as well, if `excluding` addons are
  not enough.
- *Errors in Babel or any dependent library* -
  If an error is introduced in a library and it is fixed in a newer version,
  the prebuild must be cleared and regenerated to pick up the later version.
  If the prebuild resides in `npm` then it also needs to be published there again.

## When Prebuild Is Not Possible
Addons will not be prebuilt for the following scenarios:
- Addons that have the `isDevelopingAddon` flag set
- Addons that are symlinked. Addons are considered to be symlinked if the
  addon's root is not contained in the project root or in project's node_modules.
- Addons which have been referred to using a path (e.g., to a github repo) instead of a
  version in `package.json` of its parent

In addition, not all trees can be prebuilt. Only the addon trees that do not
change between runs can be prebuilt. These include `templates`, `addon` and
`addon-test-support`.

However, even one or more of these trees must sometimes be excluded from prebuild.

An addon may need to be excluded from prebuild if one or more `treeFor` hooks for the 
addon are being extended by the addon. If a hook has been extended, *it is the
responsibility of the addon developer* to decide if the tree is safe to prebuild.

If not, currently the developer must opt out of prebuilding the addon.
Later we may support opting out of prebuilding particular trees of an addon,
not just the addon as a whole.

## Good Default Target Browsers

An ember application is generally targeted to be run on a particular
set of browsers (e.g, the last 2 versions of evergreen browsers). The
browser targets dictate the babel plugins that will be used to
transpile the code. If not specified for the addon being prebuilt, we
will use the set of browser targets defined in `ember-cli`.

## Cache Key 
  
For each addon prebuild, a cache key is generated and the prebuild
directory path contains the cache key. The cache key for the addon
includes an MD5 hash of the addon name, package, babel options,
target browsers, etc. It is built as follows:
```js
  cacheKeyParts = [
    addon.pkg && Object.keys(addon.pkg).sort(),
    addon.name,
    typeof addon.options.babel === 'function' ? addon.options.babel() : addon.options.babel,
    addon.options['ember-cli-babel'],
    targetBrowsers,
  ];
  return crypto.createHash('md5').update(stringify(cacheKeyParts), 'utf8').digest('hex');
```

Note: The cache key will be different for `last 2 Chrome versions` and `last 1 Chrome version`.
Even though the latter is a subset of the former the current design does not support using
the same prebuild. Whether this needs to be supported or not is a topic of discussion.

## Sharing Prebuild Responsibility

Typically, the responsibility of storing the addon prebuilt trees should be shared by both the addon and the app.
- The addon should publish its prebuild everytime there is a change to the addon.
- The app can also prebuild the addon and store it locally or publish it internally (e.g., to a company repository).

Storing the addon prebuilt trees with the app is generally better because:
- Most of the time addons do not specify target browsers
- It's reasonably common that an addon and an app's target and babel options are different

## Persistence
An addon can specify the location of its prebuilt directory in its
`package.json` shown below, 
```json
"prebuild" : {
  "prebuild-base-path" : "</path>"
}
```
By default, the prebuilt directory will be stored
inside the addon whether the addon is prebuilt by the app or the addon
itself.
The prebuilt directory will contain one prebuilt addon tree for each
target set. A target set is the attributes that make up the cache key.
The key will be in the format
`pre-built/<addon-name>/<md5ChecksumOfTargetgroup>/<tree-type>`.

The location to store the prebuild addons can differ from team to
team. Publishing the prebuilt addons either to `npm` or to a company
repository will make the prebuilds more widely available and  help
in reducing the cold build time across the team.

## Metadata
Each prebuilt addon for a particular target will have a metadata file
containing addon name, babel options and target browser versions. This
indicates the target configurations for which the addon has been
prebuilt.

## Prebuild Summary Log File
At the end of the build a prebuild log file (json) will be generated.
It will contain the addon name, prebuildPath, treeType, usingPrebuild
(indicates whether prebuild is created or being used) for each of the
prebuilt addons.

## Clear Prebuild Cache
The prebuilt addons can be cleared using the command `ember
prebuild:clear`.  The command can take an addon name or glob pattern
as a parameter to indicate the addons for which prebuild data can be
cleared. By default the command clears the prebuild data for all addons in the
project.

# Changes to Addon BluePrint
- `ember prebuild:clear` command should be added.
- Prebuilt directories should be ignored from being checkedin.

# How We Teach This
This feature can be documented in ember-cli guides to teach.

# Thanks
Many thanks to Stefan Penner for helping me drive this forward.